[Docs] Elastic Maps Server documentation (#85532)
elastic/kibana: docs/maps/connect-to-ems.asciidoc

. Set `map.includeElasticMapsService` to `false` to turn off the EMS connection.
. Set `map.tilemap.url` to the URL of your tile server. This configures the default tile layer of Maps.
. (Optional) Set `map.regionmap` to the vector shapes of the administrative boundaries that you want to use.

[float]
[id=elastic-maps-server]

> === Host Elastic Maps Service Locally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Host Elastic Maps Service locally
```

beta::[]

> If you cannot connect to Elastic Maps Service from the Kibana server or browser clients, and your cluster has the appropriate license level, you can opt to host the service on your own infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: consider calling out 'enterprise'

> If you cannot connect to Elastic Maps Service from the Kibana server or browser clients, and your cluster has the appropriate license level, you can opt to host the service on your own infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you cannot connect to Elastic Maps Service from the {kib} server or browser clients, and your cluster has the appropriate license level, you can opt to host the service on your own infrastructure.
```

    image: {ems-docker-image}
    environment:
      ELASTICSEARCH_HOST: http://elasticsearch.example.org
      ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME: 'ems'
      ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD: 'changeme'
----------------------------------------------------------

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-data]]
==== Data

{hosted-ems} hosts vector layer boundaries and vector tile basemaps for the entire planet. Boundaries include world countries, global administrative regions, and specific country regions. A minimal basemap is provided with {hosted-ems}. This can be used for testing environments but won't be functional for normal operations. The full basemap (around 90GB file) needs to be mounted on the Docker container for {hosted-ems} to run normally.

TIP: The available basemaps and boundaries can be explored from the `/maps` endpoint in a web page that is your self-managed equivalent to https://maps.elastic.co

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-kibana]]
==== Kibana configuration

With {hosted-ems} running, add the `map.emsUrl` configuration key in your <<settings, kibana.yml>> file pointing to the root of the service. This setting will point {kib} to request EMS basemaps and boundaries from {hosted-ems}.

> 

Reviewer 2: consider adding example:

```
map.emsUrl: https://localhost:8080
```

matching the example above when setting up Elastic Maps Server

. Set `map.includeElasticMapsService` to `false` to turn off the EMS connection.
. Set `map.tilemap.url` to the URL of your tile server. This configures the default tile layer of Maps.
. (Optional) Set `map.regionmap` to the vector shapes of the administrative boundaries that you want to use.

[float]
[id=elastic-maps-server]
=== {hosted-ems}

beta::[]

If you cannot connect to Elastic Maps Service from the Kibana server or browser clients, and your cluster has the appropriate license level, you can opt to host the service on your own infrastructure.

> {hosted-ems} is a self-managed version of Elastic Maps Service offered as a Docker image that will provide both the EMS basemaps and EMS boundaries. You need first to download and run the image and, after connecting it to your {es} cluster for license validation, it will guide you to download and configure the basemaps database that needs to be retrieved separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{hosted-ems} is a self-managed version of Elastic Maps Service offered as a Docker image that provides both the EMS basemaps and EMS boundaries. You must first download and run the image. After connecting it to your {es} cluster for license validation, you're guided to download and configure the basemaps database, which must be retrieved separately.
```

> IMPORTANT: {hosted-ems} does not serve raster tiles, needed by Vega, Coordinate, and the Region Visualizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: {hosted-ems} does not serve raster tiles, needed by Vega, coordinate, and region visualizations.
```

You can use +docker pull+ to download the {hosted-ems} image from the Elastic Docker registry.

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

> However, version {version} of {hosted-ems} has not yet been released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version {version} of {hosted-ems} has not yet been released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.
```

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","bash",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------
docker pull {ems-docker-image}
----------------------------------

> For the minimal execution, start {hosted-ems} and expose the default port `8080`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start {hosted-ems} and expose the default port `8080`:
```

["source","bash",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------
docker run --rm --init --publish 8080:8080 \
  {ems-docker-image}
----------------------------------

> Once {hosted-ems} is running, follow instructions from the webpage served at `localhost:8080` to define a configuration file and download the basemaps database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once {hosted-ems} is running, follow instructions from the webpage at `localhost:8080` to define a configuration file and download the basemaps database.
```

> // TODO: to be replaced by an screenshot from another computer 😓

Reviewer: Can this be removed?

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/elastic-maps-server-instructions.png[Set-up instructions]

endif::[]

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-configuration]]
==== Configuration

> {hosted-ems} reads properties from a configuration file in YAML format that will be validated on startup. The location of this file is provided by the `EMS_PATH_CONF` environment variable and defaults to `/usr/src/app/server/config/elastic-maps-server.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{hosted-ems} reads properties from a configuration file in YAML format that is validated on startup. The location of this file is provided by the `EMS_PATH_CONF` environment variable and defaults to `/usr/src/app/server/config/elastic-maps-server.yml`.
```

> General settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*General setting*
```

[cols="2*<"]
|===

> | `hostname`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `hostname`
```

>  | This setting specifies the host of the back end server. To allow remote users to connect, set the value to the IP address or DNS name of the {hosted-ems} container. *Default: `"your-hostname"`*. <<server-host,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 | Specifies the host of the backend server. To allow remote users to connect, set the value to the IP address or DNS name of the {hosted-ems} container. *Default: _your-hostname_*. <<server-host,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.
```

> | `port`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `port`
```

>  | This setting specifies the port used by the back end server. Default: *`8080`*. <<server-port,Equivalent {kib} setting>>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 | Specifies the port used by the backend server. Default: *`8080`*. <<server-port,Equivalent {kib} setting>>. 
```

> | `ui:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ui`
```

 | Controls the display of the status page and the layer preview. *Default: `true`*

> | `logging.level:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `logging.level`
```

>   | Verbosity of {hosted-ems} logs. Valid values are: `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal`, and `silent`. *Default: `info`*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  | Verbosity of {hosted-ems} logs. Valid values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal`, and `silent`. *Default: `info`*
```

> | `path.planet:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `path.planet`
```

  | Path of the basemaps database. *Default: `/usr/src/app/data/planet.mbtiles`*
|===

> {es} connection and security settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*{es} connection and security settings*
```

[cols="2*<"]
|===

> | `elasticsearch.host:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `elasticsearch.host`
```

 | URL of the {es} instance to use for license validation.

> | `elasticsearch.username:` and `elasticsearch.password`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `elasticsearch.username` and `elasticsearch.password`
```

  | Credentials of a user with at least the `monitor` role.

| `elasticsearch.ssl.certificateAuthorities`

>  | Paths to one or more PEM-encoded X.509 certificate authority (CA) certificates which make up a trusted certificate chain for {hosted-ems}. This chain is used by {hosted-ems} to establish trust when connecting to your {es} cluster. <<elasticsearch-ssl-certificateAuthorities,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 | Paths to one or more PEM-encoded X.509 certificate authority (CA) certificates that make up a trusted certificate chain for {hosted-ems}. This chain is used by {hosted-ems} to establish trust when connecting to your {es} cluster. <<elasticsearch-ssl-certificateAuthorities,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.
```

> | `elasticsearch.ssl.certificate` and `elasticsearch.ssl.key`, and `elasticsearch.ssl.keyPassphrase`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `elasticsearch.ssl.certificate` and `elasticsearch.ssl.key`, and `elasticsearch.ssl.keyPassphrase`
```

>  | Optional settings that provide the paths to the PEM-format SSL certificate and key files and the key password. These files are used to verify the identity of {hosted-ems} to {es} and are required when `xpack.security.http.ssl.client_authentication` in {es} is set to required. <<elasticsearch-ssl-cert-key,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 | Optional settings that provide the paths to the PEM-format SSL certificate and key files and the key password. These files are used to verify the identity of {hosted-ems} to {es} and are required when `xpack.security.http.ssl.client_authentication` in {es} is set to `required`. <<elasticsearch-ssl-cert-key,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.
```

| `elasticsearch.ssl.verificationMode`
 | Controls the verification of the server certificate that {hosted-ems} receives when making an outbound SSL/TLS connection to {es}. Valid values are "`full`", "`certificate`", and "`none`". Using "`full`" performs hostname verification, using "`certificate`" skips hostname verification, and using "`none`" skips verification entirely. *Default: `full`*. <<elasticsearch-ssl-verificationMode,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

|===

> Server security settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Server security settings*
```

[cols="2*<"]
|===

| `ssl.enabled`
 | Enables SSL/TLS for inbound connections to {hosted-ems}. When set to `true`, a certificate and its corresponding private key must be provided. *Default: `false`*. <<server-ssl-enabled,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `ssl.certificateAuthorities`

>  | Paths to one or more PEM-encoded X.509 certificate authority (CA) certificates which make up a trusted certificate chain for the {hosted-ems}. This chain is used by the {hosted-ems} to establish trust when receiving inbound SSL/TLS connections from end users. <<server-ssl-certificateAuthorities,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 | Paths to one or more PEM-encoded X.509 certificate authority (CA) certificates that make up a trusted certificate chain for the {hosted-ems}. This chain is used by the {hosted-ems} to establish trust when receiving inbound SSL/TLS connections from end users. <<server-ssl-certificateAuthorities,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.
```

> | `ssl.key`, `ssl.certificate`, and `ssl.keyPassphrase`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ssl.key`, `ssl.certificate`, and `ssl.keyPassphrase`
```

  | Location of yor SSL key and certificate files and the password that decrypts the private key that is specified via `ssl.key`. This password is optional, as the key may not be encrypted. <<server-ssl-cert-key,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

> | `ssl.supportedProtocols:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ssl.supportedProtocols`
```

 | An array of supported protocols with versions.
Valid protocols: `TLSv1`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`, `TLSv1.3`. *Default: `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`, `TLSv1.3`*. <<server-ssl-supportedProtocols,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

> | `ssl.cipherSuites:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ssl.cipherSuites`
```

*Default: `TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384 TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256 TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384, ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384, DHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256, DHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256, DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256, HIGH,!aNULL, !eNULL, !EXPORT, !DES, !RC4, !MD5, !PSK, !SRP, !CAMELLIA`*. <<server-ssl-cipherSuites,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.
|===

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-bind-mount-config]]
===== Bind-mounted configuration

One way to configure {hosted-ems} is to provide `elastic-maps-server.yml` via bind-mounting. With +docker-compose+, the bind-mount can be specified like this:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
version: '2'
services:
  {hosted-ems}:
    image: {ems-docker-image}
    volumes:
      - ./elastic-maps-server.yml:/usr/src/app/config/elastic-maps-server.yml
--------------------------------------------

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-envvar-config]]
===== Environment variable configuration

> All configuration settings can be overridden by environment variables that are named with the following conditions: all letters are uppercase and replace YAML periods by underscores. For example `elasticsearch.ssl.certificate` could be overridden by the environment variable `ELASTICSEARCH_SSL_CERTIFICATE`. Boolean variables need to use the `true` or `false` strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All configuration settings can be overridden by environment variables that are named with all uppercase letters and by replacing YAML periods with underscores. For example `elasticsearch.ssl.certificate` could be overridden by the environment variable `ELASTICSEARCH_SSL_CERTIFICATE`. Boolean variables must use the `true` or `false` strings.
```

WARNING: All information that you include in environment variables is visible through the `ps` command, including sensitive information.

These variables can be set with +docker-compose+ like this:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------
version: '2'
services:
  {hosted-ems}:
    image: {ems-docker-image}
    environment:
      ELASTICSEARCH_HOST: http://elasticsearch.example.org
      ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME: 'ems'
      ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD: 'changeme'
----------------------------------------------------------

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-data]]
==== Data

> 

Reviewer: Please add an intro sentence for this section.

Boundaries:: World countries, global administrative regions, and countries regions datasets are available.

> Basemaps:: A minimal basemap is provided with {hosted-ems}. This can be used for testing environments but won't be functional for normal operations. The full basemap (around 90GB file) needs to be mounted on the image for {hosted-ems} to run normally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basemaps:: A minimal basemap is provided with {hosted-ems}. This can be used for testing environments, but won't be functional for normal operations. The full basemap (around 90GB file) must be mounted on the image for {hosted-ems} to run normally.
```

TIP: The available basemaps and boundaries can be explored from the `/maps` endpoint in a web page that is your self-managed equivalent to https://maps.elastic.co

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-kibana]]
==== Kibana configuration

With {hosted-ems} running, add the `map.emsUrl` configuration key in your <<settings, kibana.yml>> file pointing to the root of the service. This setting will point {kib} to request EMS basemaps and boundaries from {hosted-ems}.

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-check]]
==== Status check

> {hosted-ems} runs a status check periodically that is exposed in three different forms:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{hosted-ems} periodically runs a status check that is exposed in three different forms:
```

> * At the root of {hosted-ems} a web page will render the status of the different services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* At the root of {hosted-ems}, a web page will render the status of the different services.
```

> * A JSON representation of {hosted-ems} status is available at the `/status` endpoint 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A JSON representation of {hosted-ems} status is available at the `/status` endpoint.
```

> * The Docker https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#healthcheck[`HEALTHCHECK`] instruction is run by default and will inform about the healthiness of the service, running a process equivalent to the `/status` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Docker https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#healthcheck[`HEALTHCHECK`] instruction is run by default and will inform about the health of the service, running a process equivalent to the `/status` endpoint.
```
